Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
Today, we're fortunate to have our beloved pastor, Michael Gonzalez, with us who will be sharing God's word.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
This morning.
And so I want to open up today's message with a very familiar passage of Scripture that is going to be the foundation of our time together.
It's found in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 28.
It says this, it says there is no longer Jew or Gentile, slave or free, male or, and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Now hold there for a moment.
We can't talk about the needs of our community.
We can't talk about the difficulties of offering hope and healing to our community
without addressing one very specific issue.
So today we're going to dive into a topic that is both sensitive but extremely vital.
And that is healing the racial divides that are so prevalent in our world.
I wanna begin by saying that I don't have all the answers.
This is an issue that is far more complex, far more deep, far more challenging than anything that I can do while I'm up here.
But what I do know is this.
As your pastor, I know my experiences differ from many of yours.
But that I am here to learn from you, to listen to your stories,
to stand with you in seeking justice and healing as we seek to heal our community as a church.
Because together we are called to demonstrate the love of Christ united as one family.
We are Berea Temple, a church for all nations.
Every race, every color, every creed, every nationality, every language group,
This is a place for the body of Christ.
As we continue building our identity statement this year, we are declaring that we are.
Would you please go back to the we are and I'll take care of the slides from there.
That we are.
This was the foundation of what we're talking about for this entire year.
We are.
whatever it may be.
And then we moved on and we are a-g.
I know this is a review for all of us, but I want us to kind of get again this idea as we dive in together.
We are an assemblies of God, Pentecostal, spirit-filled, Bible-believing church at the corner of Compton and Russell.
We are the body of Christ here in South City to rise up and to call Christ
out to the nations.
Amen.
We are part of the body that is here.
We are church members.
We are people who are called to offer hope and healing to our community.
And we must recognize the role that we play in bringing healing to one of the most painful and unfortunately persistent issues in our city today.
The racial divides.
Our city is made up of numerous dozens of different nationalities.
The largest is the Bosnians and then the Afghanis and the list goes on and on.
If you're ever interested, I keep a list of all of the nations in my office and I pray over those regularly because this is who we are as a church.
This is who we are called to be.
So today I've titled my message just that, healing racial divides.
Within our congregation, we are a family.
We are united by our faith in Jesus Christ, yet outside these four walls in the broader community of our city, our beloved city of St. Louis, there are issues of racial division that are very real and very, very deeply felt.
These divides are not just abstract concepts, they're not things that are at fingertip length.
They are very real and very deeply painful and they impact many right here in our own city and beyond.
And I know that many of you have been directly affected
by racial tensions and injustices that have happened within our community.
And while I may not have been here during certain pivotal moments within the city of St. Louis, I can understand how those have impacted the lives of those people that call our great city home.
And they continue to shape our shared experiences as we live in St. Louis.
As a church, we must be committed to standing against the sin
of division and prejudice, which has caused deep wounds even within the Christian community.
So today, as we address this topic, there's a lot of places that our eyes and our minds could go.
But I want us to focus in on how we, as the body of Christ, the body of Christ that stands tall and proud with a loud voice at the corner of Compton and Russell.
how we can be, we've talked a lot this over the last two years about being a beacon of hope to our city.
That is what the church has called to, how we can be a beacon of hope and healing to those around us.
So that is our focus today.
So the first thing, again, if you're a notetaker, the first way that we can be a beacon of hope and healing on this specific issue is by recognizing our unity
in Christ.
Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 14, it reminds us that for Christ Himself has brought peace to us.
He united Jews and Gentiles into one people when in His own body on the cross He broke down the wall of hostility that separated us.
This passage shows us that Jesus is the one who breaks down the walls that divide us.
uniting us into one body through his peace.
He is the one who breaks down the walls.
He is the one, is the only place that we are going to find the walls, the connection, the continuity, the unity of putting back together is only gonna be found in Jesus.
We spoke last time we were together that no government plan, policy, or program is gonna be able to fix these issues.
It is only the voice and the hand of the Almighty God.
Many people in our community are struggling with division, with barriers that separate them from one another.
But here inside the body of Christ, we know that these barriers have already been torn down.
Jesus Himself is our peace.
And through Him, we are united in one.
Consider more recent moments in our own city where communities have come together to stand against racial injustice and to advocate for change, whether this is marches or walks, festivals or community awareness events.
In these times, people of all backgrounds joined hands and raised their voices, breaking down the barriers and pushing for more a more just society.
Just like those efforts,
for justice and reconciliation in our own community.
We too, the church, we must actively work to tear down the invisible walls that divide us, race, culture, social.
These have to be broken down within the body of Christ, where we come together as a single voice, unified, crying out in the wilderness, returned to Jesus, know the Father,
Our church, I believe wholeheartedly, must be a living testimony to this truth.
So here's a question.
As we reflect on the unity that we have in Christ, I want us to take a moment and examine our own individual hearts.
Are there any biases or prejudices that we've held on to?
Perhaps
Even unconsciously, things that we've just allowed to creep into our lives.
Are there any of those that we need to bring before the Lord for healing in our own hearts so that we can be hope and healing to our community?
We can be a catalyst for healing in the city of St. Louis.
Because we talk about revival has to start in me, right?
Salvation has to start in me.
Peace has to start in me, right?
Well, then so does this.
So does dealing with our own issues.
That has to start in me.
It has to start in my heart.
As we interact with our neighbors, our friends, our coworkers, or even those that we worship with, we should reflect the unity that we have in Christ.
By doing so, we can offer the world a glimpse of what true community looks like.
When people look at Berea Temple, I tell people this all the time.
We worship with traditional, regular, what we would call English-American worship songs.
We worship in Spanish, we've worshiped in French, we've worshiped in Swahili, we've worshiped in Kana, we've worshiped in Ibo,
We've worshiped in multiple languages, multiple styles of worship.
We have people from eight different nations represented within the body of Christ at Berea Temple.
I tell people, if you wanna see what heaven's gonna look like, come to Berea Temple on a Sunday morning.
If you wanna hear what worship is gonna sound like, come to Berea Temple and worship with us in one of our worship services.
We have the opportunity to give the world a glimpse of what community is supposed to look like.
Maria Temple can be a community where love overcomes division, peace triumphs over hostility.
I want to stop here.
I want us to take a moment to think about how we can demonstrate this unity both individually
and collectively as a church body.
It's great to talk about it.
It's great to talk about the ethereal, the concepts, the ideas, but it doesn't matter if we don't put boots on the ground.
We've talked about that all through this series of hope and healing.
What can we do both individually and collectively as a church body
to demonstrate this kind of unity.
Individually, we can reach out to someone different than us, have meaningful conversations and stand against prejudice wherever we encounter it.
But we must also recognize that true healing requires us to address the systemic issues of inequality and racism.
It has to.
As a church, we can actively support local justice initiatives, we can partner with organizations working towards equality, and we can advocate for change in our community.
Together, we can make a tangible difference, living out our faith, not just in words, but in actions that promote justice and reconciliation for everybody.
Because we are all the church.
I am, if you haven't picked up yet, I am big on we are the church.
We are the body of Christ.
We together stand.
We together, I don't care what color, race, socioeconomic status.
I don't care if you have more money than Donald Trump or if you're as broke as, well, we won't reference you.
When we step in here, you are my brother and sister.
And if you need me to lift you up, I'm gonna lift you up.
If you need a hug, we're gonna hug.
If you need to sit down and counsel, I don't care what the schedule says, we will sit down and we will talk.
Inside here, we are the body of Christ, and we are brothers and sisters under one King, under one daddy.
This is who we are.
We are the church.
Second, if you're a notetaker.
The second way we can offer hope and healing to our community on this issue is by acknowledging the pain and struggles.
It does us no good to try to avoid it.
It does us no good to try to hide or ignore it or to claim that it doesn't exist.
Romans chapter 12 and verse 15 says, it encourages us to be happy with those who are happy and to weep with those who weep.
Another translation says to rejoice with those
who rejoice and to mourn with those who mourn.
It doesn't say that we're the recipient of the mourning issue, but that we come along and we mourn with them.
And so if you are mourning, we as your brothers and sisters
more than with you.
There are too many stories in our world's history, stories of wars and atrocities, all in the name of religion, race, or retaliation against a people group who are different than another people group.
From the division of food found in the book of Acts, to the Spanish Inquisition, to the slavery across the globe, to the Holocaust, and to far too many individual stories found in our own current events.
You think of the pain that these stories carry, the fear, the loss, the sense of injustice.
Even if these experiences aren't our own, they're very real to our brothers and sisters.
I'll tell you a story that I have.
We were offered tickets this last week to go
They very often give pastors these free tickets to go see these Christian movies that come out and they want to get feedback on what pastors think.
Mostly, they want us to go watch it for free so that we'll tell you to go buy a ticket and go watch that movie.
But, you know, that's what it is.
We know what it is, it's okay.
But I was offered free tickets and we went and we saw the movie.
And as we got into it, I realized the type of movie that it was.
And I leaned over to Sister Leticia and I said, if I would have realized that it was one of these movies, I would never have accepted the tickets.
It was a movie about the Holocaust and about the atrocities that happened during that time.
My heart has a hard time processing because my brain immediately goes to the pain.
Nobody can rightly put onto a screen the horror that our Jewish brothers and sisters had to deal with through that season.
Not knowing day to day, moment to moment, if their life was over.
And to try to put that into a picture, anything that they create is gonna be woefully short
But regardless, as a church, we're called to mourn with those who mourn.
And so we mourn with our brothers and sisters.
Again, whether it's through any of these things that we listed, you know, obviously we weren't here through the Inquisition and most of us in this room at least are not here through World War II.
But for our brothers and sisters are dealing with issues within our own current events, we stand in solidarity with them.
and we mourn with those who mourn, and we listen to their stories with open hearts.
Stories like this remind us of the struggles of others, even when possibly distant from our own, may be different than what we've experienced.
But it doesn't mean that they're not anymore real, and we stand with them through whatever the situation is.
In our city, there are many who are mourning
mourning the pain and the injustice that racial divides have caused.
As a church, we are already a community deeply committed to unity and healing.
Yet we know that there's always more we can do to deepen our understanding and to extend our compassion to those who are hurting in the wider community.
I think of the story of the Good Samaritan found in Luke chapter 10.
This is a Jewish man
who's beaten and left for dead.
And it's not the religious leaders that pass by, but the Samaritan, someone from a group of people that is despised by the Jews, who stops and helps him.
He bandages his wounds and he cares for him.
He takes him to an inn and he even pulls money out of his own pocket and says, here, this should take care of him, but if there's not, if there's any more ode, I'll take care of it on my return.
The Samaritan acknowledged the pain of someone who would typically be seen as an enemy, showing compassion and love that crossed societal boundaries, regardless of what that boundary was.
We need to be like the good Samaritan, acknowledging the pain that others feel, even when it may seem distant from our own experience, even if we don't understand
We acknowledge, we empathize, and we come and we stand in unity.
By opening our hearts to the stories and the experiences of others, we fulfill our calling to mourn with those who mourn and to be instruments of healing in our city.
Because again, we are a church who is called to offer hope and healing.
Doesn't matter what the topic is.
The topic is irrelevant.
We are first responders to the spiritual needs of our community.
Praise the Lord for paramedics and firefighters and police.
They do a job that is in sometimes unimaginable.
But we as the body of Christ, we run in when other people just go, whatever.
leave them to their own device.
I see so much listening and compassion already within our church.
I want us to continue to build on this foundation by engaging even more in community events and initiatives that promote healing of all kinds, using the strength that we already have to foster reconciliation and support to those in need.
I want us to find opportunities to participate in activities that foster reconciliation and healing across the barriers that the enemy wants to use to keep us apart.
Did you catch who I mentioned?
The enemy.
He is the father of all wise.
He is the father of division.
He is the father of disunity, of discord, of chaos, not Christ.
This is how we put our faith into action and bring tangible healing to our city.
This is how we as the body of Christ can stand up
and offer hope and healing to the City of St. Louis.
The third way that we can offer hope and healing to our community is by pursuing reconciliation and healing.
We have to acknowledge it.
We have to acknowledge that it exists and then we have to pursue with a reckless abandon.
reconciliation and healing.
Second Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 18 says, and all of this is a gift from God who brought us back to Himself through Christ.
And God has given us this task of reconciling people to Him.
It doesn't say reconciling Jews, it doesn't say reconciling Gentiles, it does not make a specific
address to a people group of socioeconomic status, a particular region or culture.
It says to reconcile people to him.
In our city, there is a desperate need for reconciliation, for bridges to be built where walls have once stood.
as a church we're called to be ministers of reconciliation, not just within our own community, but beyond our walls, into the broader city.
But reconciliation is not just about bringing people together.
It involves seeking justice.
Like many who have gone before us, we must be relentless in our pursuit of reconciliation, breaking down barriers and building bridges wherever we go.
Micah chapter six and verse eight tells us that, no, oh people, the Lord has told you what is good.
And this is what he requires of you to do what is right to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God.
We are called not only to build bridges, but to pursue justice, to love mercy for our community and to teach them how to walk with our God.
We are called to bring reconciliation, not only reconciliation in the racial issue, but in their own heart with the creator, the maker of heaven and earth.
It is our responsibility to take the hope and healing that we experience here and extend it outwards to be ambassadors of Christ's reconciliation in our neighborhoods and our cities.
We are ambassadors.
We are the people who go out from God's house, from his home, and we take the message
of hope and healing to our neighborhood, to our neighbors, to our jobs, to our schools, to our other community events.
We are the ambassadors who speak the truth of Jesus to a lost and dying world.
And I recognize that this journey towards reconciliation and unity isn't easy.
I get that.
There will be moments of discomfort, misunderstandings, and frankly, even setbacks.
Yet we must remain committed, understanding that the path to healing often requires courage, perseverance, and a whole lot of God's grace.
While the road may be challenging, we are strengthened by our faith in Jesus Christ.
He has already overcome the world, and he calls us to be his peacemakers.
He has already overcome the world.
So when we move forward, we don't need to move forward in anger.
We don't need to move forward in hostility.
We don't need to move forward in fear because he's already overcome the world.
So now we move forward
already knowing the outcome and we become his ambassadors.
We become his mouthpiece because he has already spoken how this ends.
And so we simply can step into the role of peacemaker.
So what are some specific ways again that we can engage in reconciliation efforts?
We can partner with other local churches or organizations working toward community healing.
We can host community forums where people can share their experiences and work together towards understanding.
We can support initiatives that provide opportunities for cross-cultural interactions and learnings.
These actions help break down barriers and build bridges of understanding and peace.
But let's not stop there.
Let's also think about how we can take these actions further, both individuals and as a church body.
Individually, we can reach out to our neighbors who may have different backgrounds and engage again in meaningful conversations and stand against the prejudice wherever we encounter it.
As a church, we can be proactive in forming alliances with community leaders, advocating for justice in local issues and developing programs that foster unity and reconciliation within our community.
Together we can embody the message of Christ's love in every sphere of our influence, showing the world what true unity looks like.
We as the body of Christ, we as Berea Temple, we as an international church, we can be the church that shows our community what real
Christian fellowship and real Christian love looks like.
As we continue to live out our identity as AG church members who offer hope and healing to our community, want us to remember and to celebrate the many ways that we've already been doing this.
I see ways in which we as a church have already reached out to those in need.
We had a food pantry program when I first got here.
And unfortunately, by no fault of ours, the program had to close because our supplier no longer had the supplies to provide for us.
But we were willing, we stood out and stood in the gap during a time that was necessary.
We extended our love beyond our role, our walls.
We hosted seek and say, and we gave away hundreds and hundreds of bags of groceries.
We had conversations with homeless.
We had conversations with our neighbors.
We saw the community come together.
The issue of division and pain that we see in our city is real.
And God has positioned us and is equipping us.
to continue to be part of the solution.
So as we close today, want us to declare together the vision that God has given us as a church body.
We are.
Would you do this?
Would you say with me?
We are.
We are AG.
Thank you.
We are AG church members.
We are AG church members who offer hope and healing in our community.
That is who we are.
See, this isn't just a dream.
It's a reality that we're working toward every day.
Everything we do as a church
should be focused around offering hope and healing to our community.
Next year, as we move into our new theme, we're going to make a bit of a turn, not a hard turn, but a bit of a turn.
It still is about offering hope and healing to a lost and dying world.
It is still about being part of our community because this is more
than just a saying.
It's more than a one-time discussion.
It is a commitment that we as a body of Christ are making.
We need to choose to be peacemakers and bridge builders every day in our conversations, in our actions, and in our community engagements.
We need to seek out ways to learn
to grow and to stand together as a church, and that truly reflects the unity and diversity of God's kingdom.
This is a journey that we are all on together, and it requires dedication, it requires prayer, and it requires action.
As we move forward, I want us to commit to being a church that doesn't just talk about healing, but actively works toward it day by day,
step by step.
We will keep finding new ways to live out our calling, partnering with others, and continually seeking God's guidance on how we can be agents of His peace and His reconciliation.
Revelation 7 and verse 9 says, In this passage we see a vision of the future.
a great multitude that no one could count from every nation, tribe, people, and language standing before the throne and before the lamp.
This is the vision of God's kingdom, and this is the vision that we hold at Berea Temple International Church, a church for all nations from every nation, every tribe, every people, and every language.
Let this be our declaration.
Let this be our mission.
Let this be our identity.
That Berea Temple International Church is a church for all nations.
We are called to reflect the unity and diversity of God's kingdom bringing hope and healing to all.
So as we reflect on today's message,
Let's commit to taking those small but powerful steps towards being agents of peace and being agents of reconciliation.
Let's ask God to help show us how we can contribute to healing the divides in our community.
Before we close in prayer, I invite you to take a moment of silent reflection.
Ask God to reveal any personal biases or areas where you can contribute to healing racial divides that plague our community.
And let's commit to being peacemakers and healers and bridge builders in our city.
Father, we ask you, we ask for your guidance as we seek to be peacemakers and healers and bridge builders in the city of St. Louis.
Unite us in your love and help us to be a light that shines brightly in the darkness, reflecting the hope and healing that only you can bring.
Empower us with boldness and courage to act on the message we've heard today.
In the name of Jesus, we've prayed.
In a moment as our worship team plays our final song.
If you haven't yet experienced healing and unity that comes through knowing Jesus as your Lord and Savior, we want to give you that opportunity today.
This decision could be your first step towards peace and reconciliation.
Not only in your life, but in the lives of those around you.
And if you're here today and you don't have peace in your heart, you're going pastor, I'd love to be a peacemaker.
I'd love to be a bridge builder.
I'd love to be part of the solution, but I am so caught up in my own heart.
I don't have peace.
you're invited to come and to find a place at the altar, and to simply pour your heart out to the Father.
You don't have to pour it out to me, I'm not your priest.
But you can pour it out to the Father, and He can heal your heart.
So as we sing, you're invited to come, amen.